I'm glad you've made it this far.
Now, we're going to dive into a Graph-Based SLAM approach
called Real-Time Appearance-Based Mapping or RTAB-Map.
Appearance-Based SLAM means that the algorithm uses data collected from
vision sensors to localize the robot and map the environment.
In Appearance-Based methods, a process called
loop closure is used to determine whether the robot has seen a location before.
As the robot travels to new areas in its environment,
the map is expanded,
and the number of images that each new image must be compared to increases,
this causes the loop closure to take longer with the complexity increasing linearly.
RTAB-Map is optimized for large-scale and long-term SLAM
by using multiple strategies to allow for loop closure to be done in real-time.
In this context, this means that the loop closure is happening fast
enough that the result can be obtained before the next camera images are acquired.
In the remainder of this lesson,
you will learn about how the front-end and back-end
structure of RTAB-Map differs from traditional graph SLAM,
the importance of loop closure,
how the process is optimized using bag of words and memory management,
and some practical implications of RTAB-Map.